[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: I told you about like I
think it's dumb that people ask these
questions in interviews but I wanna give
you an example that no one's going to ask
you to implement merge sort or if they do
that's a really dumb question because you
can just like Google that
in ten seconds right.
What's more important that you're getting
out of this is not necessarily the rote
repetition of the writing
merge sort right because
in reality you're never going to write
merge sort in your entire career.
You really shouldn't because
someone else wrote it and
they actually went through and
did all the micro optimizations for you.
See you don't have to worry about should
I be cashing this or memorizing this or
something like that.
But what is interesting and what is useful
about learning algorithms is you can kind
of deconstruct these algorithms and
use them in different places.
Let's look at this.
This is actually,
it actually might even still be
the interview question that read it.
If the interview and
read it like here you go here's one
of the answer to these questions.
This is what they asked me and
as far as I know they still are asking it.
They might get mad at me for
you know putting it on video but
whatever I don't work there anymore so
[LAUGH] it's totally cool.
>> [SOUND].
>> Brian Holt: The question is I
give you two sorted arrays, and
I want you to find the median
element between the two arrays.
Now if you don't remember statistics
the median element is the middle one.
It's the middle index.
And whereas it's not the average I average
you add them all together and divide.
If I give you two sorted arrays and
I ask you to find the median
element between the two arrays,
I want one median element for
the two arrays, how are you gonna do that?
[COUGH].
Let's go through a couple different
solutions to that, the naive answer is
I'm just gonna concatenate sort and
find the median, like that works.
If I have,
let's just write down two arrays here.
We have 1, 5, 8,
9, and we have 2, 3,
7,10 something like that.
If I just call concatenate
sort I'm gonna get 1, 2, 3, 5,
7, 8, 9, 10 and then I can just ask
what's up the fifth index or whatever?
Yeah fifth index not fifth
index the 5 index, the no,
the four index the fifth
element there we go.
Okay.
Check.
Got it.
Nailed it.
[COUGH].
And that's fine that works but
that's really inefficient,
like that's that's the most
inefficient way to solve this problem.
What happens if you
have 2 million indexes?
That's a really,
really inefficient thing for
you to be doing cause you're gonna
take up a ton of space in memory.
You're gonna be taking up a lot of CPU
cycles unnecessarily sorting everything.
Well, this might look
a little bit familiar.
We have two sorted arrays
that I'm giving you.
What is this like?
This is kinda like the stitch algorithm
that you and I just did together.
It's pretty similar that
we have two sorted arrays.
And that's exactly what that
stitching algorithm does.
Why then instead of concatting and
sorting why don't we just do
the sort kind of on the fly.
We just do okay, is one or
two greater one or two is greater?
I'm gonna take 1 then take 2 and
take 3 and take 5, 7, 8, 9, 10.
Okay, so I have this new array that I
didn't have to concatenate and sort it.
I just kinda did that on the fly so
now I can just give you the middle one
which in this particular case is gonna be,
yeah.
I mean, in this particular case you take
5 or 7 or you do the, you'd get six.
I don't care about statistics,
so whatever.
Whatever you feel like giving me is fine.
We can make this still
a bit better though?
Because if you think about it,
the median element is going to be always,
a 100% of the time,
the fifth element in there.
We actually don't need to create
new array or anything like that.
We can actually just count and as soon as
we get to the fifth item in the sorted
array, we can just stop because that's it.
We already found it.
I can just say, I don't have to create
anything new in terms of array.
I can just say, okay well, 1,
2, 3, four wait a minute yeah,
5 and I don't have to care about
the rest of them that's it,
that's the end, that's the answer.
I'm hoping this demonstrates to you that
these algorithms you can kind of pick them
apart and take these constructs,
these ideas, these concepts, and
apply them to different parts
of your your computing.
As you learn these algorithms you're
gonna learn novel ways to apply them, and
to take these classic
computer science ideas.
These were all invented in 60s,
70s, 50s, whatever and
some of them even earlier cause
they're mathematical concepts and
not computing concepts, and
apply them to whatever you're doing.
And so a lot of your interview
questions are gonna be derivatives
of this cause again, this was not invented
here, this is a merge sort of thing and
we're just kind of taking part
of that out and using it here.